Let's go and apply traditional machine learning to a classification problem on an existing data.
This will just give you an idea of how the built in laboratories for classification work and Julia.
So let's go ahead and use the other datasets and MLB packages.
If you don't have them installed, you can install them using these two cells.
I already do.
So I'm going to just start using them.
So our data sets provides the information about well-known datasets coming from our and base is the
traditional machine learning collection.
So let's go ahead and load the iris data set, which is the information about different flowers and
their species into our iris field.
So there you go.
We can go ahead and take a look at what these dataset looks like in this table that will show up in
just a minute.
So we have sibilant, separate, petulant preterit.
And in the species, you might have seen this before as well.
Let's go ahead and see what the actual pipeline looks like for doing machine learning on this data set.
So we're first going to convert this into a matrix.
So all the rows and only the first four columns, which are the features.
So those are going to go into X and the labels are going to come from the fifth column.
So there we go.
These are the columns that we have.
So little map can tell us what the actual values correspond to the actual labels.
So one is to is regular and three is Virginica.
We can go ahead and use the label encode function to convert all the labels into their corresponding
numeric values.
One, two and three.
OK, so once we do that, we're going to be converted into these values.
OK, so we are going to now create the training and testing splits.
So essentially what we are going to do is we are going to do a class split, which means for each class
we are going to take like 70 percent values and put them in the training and the rest of them we are
going to put into testing.
So the call is going to be like this or Berglas, Plett, we are going to give it away and we are going
to say that point seven of the values should go into the trainings.
So this is going to return the IDs from the dataset, which should be put into the training side.
So let's go ahead and do that and then it'll make sense.
So we're going to do using random because we want to have a random sample from the whole dataset for
our training.
What part does is it figures out which unique values why has to one, two and three for each of these
values, it's going to go ahead and find the values from Y where that specific row equals this class.
So for each of these classes, we are going to do this.
OK, and what are we going to do?
We are going to do a random subsequence from these values and we are only going to pick 70 percent of
those because we point seven to it.
OK, so.
For number one, it's going to be 70 percent of the values for class number two, it's going to pick
70 percent of the values and four, class number three and all of those row IDs.
So these are just the IDs, not the whole rows.
So those are going to be pushed into our keep IDs.
OK, let's do that and you'll see what this means for each of these classes.
We are going to get these values.
So two, three, four, six, seven.
And all of these some of these are going to be fun.
Class one from classroom class three.
The reason we do it like this is, for instance, if you have an imbalance dataset and like 90 percent
of your data comes from one class and we just do a random split, then it's highly unlikely that most
of the values are going to come from just one class.
So upper class split ensures that we have a good representation of classes in our training and in our
testing sets.
OK, so we just get these IDs back.
We are going to calculate the test IDs now by calculating the differences of all the values from the
training.
So from 100 to 150, these are the training rows and the rest are going to be the districts.
So that makes sense.
OK, so we have two, three, four here, so one, eight, nine goes over here.
OK, so eight, nine is not going to be over there and so on and so forth.
So now we have the IDs for training and testing both eight.
So if you do the values or one hundred and three go here and forty seven go here, which is like a 70
30 split.
OK, then we need another helper function for calculating the actual value.
So before looking at this function.
Let me give you an example.
So let's say you have a machine learning algorithm and you put the value in there and it predicts three
point one because it's real numbers.
It can predict zero point five, it can predict zero point three, it can predict three point one.
It can predict all of those different values.
And we can only have the classes one, two and three.
So we need to write a function which given three point one, will return either one, two or three to
us.
This is that function.
But before we go into this, just look at what argument does so.
If you say amen off this list, it's going to calculate the minimum.
So the minimum of these values is going to be zero point nine.
But we're not interested in the actual value, zero point nine.
We are interested in the position of this one, two and three.
So if you say Aardman.
It's going to return three to us, OK, and amen of, let's say, minus one point one is going to be
two.
So Ogwyn essentially determines the position corresponding to the minimum.
OK, so once we have this, let's go over here.
So we give it a predicted value, let's say three point one.
It's going to calculate the difference from the predicted value and all of these values.
And this is going to be distributed to three point one is going to subtract one.
This is going to be two point one, three point one minus two is going to be one point one and three
point one.
Minus three is going to be zero point nine.
So once we do an absolute of that, because we're only interested in absolute differences and then an
argument is going to return either one, two or three depending on whatever the closest value is.
So we do that and then we say.
Assigned glass.
And if you say one, it's going to say one, if you say one point to, it's going to say one.
If you say one point seven, it's going to now say two because it's the closest.
So similarly, two point seven is going to be three and two point two is going to be two to hold.
This makes sense.
This is because our machine learning algorithms are going to run this value to us and we need to convert
this into an actual class.
So this very simple function does that for us.
Now, let's go ahead and do the actual usage of classifier.
So first we're going to use the decision.
So it's very straightforward.
Now you're going to do decision trees and the model is going to be decision to classify it with a maximum
of two.
If you don't know what a decision tree is, you can look it up and you can study the model.
But it's a very powerful model.
It's very useful for us here.
It's not important what the decision tree algorithm does and how it works for us.
We are just trying to use it here.
OK, so we create the model and we pass it.
The values so fit function is going to do the actual learning and this is going to be the model that
we are using.
We are going to give it all the trained values and the labels for different values.
So you will remember we had trained IDs, so we are going to take all the train it rolls and all the
columns from X and the train is rose from Y, so that's all there is to it.
We do that and we get the result.
So I probably didn't run it here, so.
So I have a typo here.
So there you go.
So this is now done and now we can go ahead and do the testing so we can say CU is equal to the cutie's.
You got to test it and all the rules and then we are going to be here.
So we are going to do the prediction.
So prediction on this model for discovery is this over here, OK, we can find the accuracy and finding
accuracy again is a very simple function.
We give it the predicted values and the ground truth values.
We are going to check how many of the predicted values equals piecewise, equals ground truth, values
and divide by the total number of grouted values.
So that's all that accuracy is the number of correct answers.
OK, so we can say predictions which we calculated over here and these are ground rules.
So once we do that.
I really should fix this, so once we do that, we get the accuracy of ninety three point six, which
is really good decision, trees can be combined into random forests and using that, again, is very
straightforward.
So you get a random forest classifier and the number of trees in this classified is going to be 20.
We are going to fit it just as before.
So here we go.
And we are going to calculate the accuracy for.
This model is what I do, ninety point six support vector machines are also supported by default.
So you can do using libbers SVM.
You calculate the training and testing values, so those go into training and we simply pass them over
here.
OK, the reason we are doing this is Leyb.
SVM requires the structure in a slightly different format.
So we have to transpose this.
So you just have to remember that labor system is slightly different because it's traditionally done
like that.
OK, and we can go ahead and do the learning and then we can do the accuracy test as well to see how
Livestream does on this data set.
OK, so we get ninety five point seven four on live SVM really quickly.
So people don't typically do these traditional machine learning models.
But if you do want to do that, you can see that the code is very clean, very straightforward.
You can work with this in the next video.
We are going to move on to neural networks and that is where machine learning really shines in Julia,
because Julia starts with a very simple concept and that really explodes into the state of the art machine
learning.
So in the next video, we're going to do that.